# 🎭 Masquerading as CJS

Import resolved to a CommonJS type declaration file, but an ESM JavaScript file.

## Explanation

In Node, files are determined to be ES modules or CommonJS modules by their file extension and ancestor package.json `"type"` field. When in `--moduleResolution node16`, TypeScript uses the same algorithm to determine the module format of type declaration files. A `.d.mts` file represents a `.mjs` file which is always an ES module; a `.d.cts` file represents a `.cjs` file which is always a CommonJS module; a `.d.ts` file represents a `.js` file whose module format is determined by the nearest package.json.

When a user writes an import, TypeScript needs to know whether the resolved module is ESM or CJS in order to provide accurate checking. It makes this determination based on the file extension and package.json `"type"` of the _type declaration file_ it finds. This logic depends on an assumption that the type declaration file resolved by TypeScript and the JavaScript file resolved by Node actually match—an assumption that necessarily holds if the pair is generated by `tsc`, but can be easily violated with hand-authored declaration files or third-party build tools.

This problem indicates a violation of that assumption where the type declaration file implies that the corresponding runtime module is CommonJS, but it appears that Node will resolve to an ES module.

This problem is only raised when checking entrypoints under `--moduleResolution node16`, as that’s currently the only TypeScript mode that makes a module format distinction based on file extension and package.json.

## Consequences

* TypeScript will allow consumers to use a default import on the module even if one isn’t defined in the resolved types, leading to a crash at runtime. This is allowed because CommonJS modules in Node always have a default export synthesized that points to their `module.exports` object. When TypeScript sees a `.d.ts` file like:
  ```ts
  export declare const a: string;
  export declare function b(): number;
  ```
  and determines that it should represent a CommonJS module, the inferred structure of the corresponding JavaScript file is:
  ```ts
  Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", { value: true });
  exports.a = "...";
  exports.b = function b() { /* ... */ };
  ```
  That CommonJS module can be used in Node through a default import:
  ```ts
  import mod from "pkg";
  mod.a; mod.b();
  ```
  But if the runtime module is actually an ES module like:
  ```ts
  export const a = "...";
  export function b() { /* ... */ }
  ```
  then the same default import will fail to link at runtime.
* If the types do define a default export, TypeScript will misinterpret how to access it, leading consumers to write code that crashes at runtime, and issuing an error on code that works at runtime. When TypeScript sees a `.d.ts` file like:
  ```ts
  declare function hello(): string;
  export default hello;
  ```
  and determines that it should represent a CommonJS module, the inferred structure of the corresponding JavaScript file is:
  ```ts
  Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", { value: true });
  exports.default = function hello() { /* ... */ };
  ```
  In Node, a default import of that CommonJS module links to the entire `module.exports` object, so to access the `default` property, it would require an extra property access:
  ```ts
  import mod from "pkg";
  console.log(mod); // { default: [Function: hello] }
  mod.default();
  ```
  But if the runtime module is actually an ES module like:
  ```ts
  export default function hello() { /* ... */ };
  ```
  then the same default import will link to the function, and an additional property access will be `undefined`:
  ```ts
  import mod from "pkg";
  mod();
  mod.default; // undefined
  ```

## Common causes

This problem usually happens when a library that includes both a CJS and ESM implementation attempts to use a single `.d.ts` file to represent both, where the package.json does not have `"type": "module"`, most often in a structure like:

```json
{
  "name": "pkg",
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "types": "./index.d.ts",
      "import": "./index.mjs",
      "require": "./index.js"
    }
  }
}
```

The `types` condition is always set by TypeScript, so the `index.d.ts` file will be resolved regardless of whether `import` or `require` is set. When `import` is set, the runtime will resolve to `index.mjs`, which is an ES module. But `index.d.ts`, due to its file extension, is interpreted as representing a CommonJS module. (The execution of `tsc --declaration` that produces an `index.d.ts` would also produce an `index.js` counterpart, and `.js` files are CommonJS in this location because the package.json does not contain `"type": "module"`.)

A golden rule of declaration files is that if they represent a module—that is, if they use `import` or `export` at the top level—they must represent _exactly_ one JavaScript file. They _especially_ cannot represent JavaScript files of two different module formats. The example above needs to add a `.d.mts` file to represent the `.mjs` file, at which point the package.json can be rewritten as:

```json
{
  "name": "pkg",
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "import": {
        "types": "./index.d.mts",
        "default": "./index.mjs"
      },
      "require": {
        "types": "./index.d.ts",
        "default": "./index.js"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

or just as well:

```json
{
  "name": "pkg",
  "exports": {
    ".": {
      "import": "./index.mjs",
      "require": "./index.js"
    }
  }
}
```

letting TypeScript find the corresponding `index.d.mts` and `index.d.ts` files by extension substitution.

Whatever tool produces the `index.mjs` file should ideally take responsibility for producing the `index.d.mts` file, and likewise for the `.js`/`.d.ts` pair.
