packages/cli/test/snapshots/postcss@8.4.21.tgz.md, before:

# postcss@8.4.21.tgz

```
$ attw postcss@8.4.21.tgz


 🎭 Imports of `"postcss"` under the `node16` module resolution setting when the importing module is ESM (its extension is `.mts` or `.mjs`, or it has a `.ts` or `.js` extension and is in scope of a `package.json` that contains `"type": "module"`) resolved to CJS types, but ESM implementations.

 🐛 Imports of `"postcss"` under resolution modes that use the `import` condition in package.json `"exports"` resolved through a conditional package.json export, but only after failing to resolve through an earlier condition.
   This behavior is a TypeScript bug (https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/50762) and should not be relied upon.

 ❗️ The types resolved at multiple entrypoints use `export default` where the implementation appears to use `module.exports =`.
   Node treats a default import of these constructs from an ES module differently, so these types will make TypeScript under the `node16` resolution mode think an extra `.default` property access is required, but that will likely fail at runtime in Node.
   These types should use `export =` instead of `export default`.

 🚫 Imports of multiple entrypoints under all module resolution settings resolved to JavaScript files, but no types.

┌────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┐
│                    │ "postcss"                         │ "postcss/lib/at-rule"             │ "postcss/lib/comment"             │ "postcss/lib/container"           │ "postcss/lib/css-syntax-error"    │ "postcss/lib/declaration"         │ "postcss/lib/fromJSON"            │ "postcss/lib/input"               │ "postcss/lib/lazy-result"         │ "postcss/lib/no-work-result"      │ "postcss/lib/list"                │ "postcss/lib/map-generator"       │ "postcss/lib/node"                │ "postcss/lib/parse"               │ "postcss/lib/parser"              │ "postcss/lib/postcss"             │ "postcss/lib/previous-map"        │ "postcss/lib/processor"           │ "postcss/lib/result"              │ "postcss/lib/root"                │ "postcss/lib/rule"                │ "postcss/lib/stringifier"         │ "postcss/lib/stringify"           │ "postcss/lib/symbols"             │ "postcss/lib/terminal-highlight"  │ "postcss/lib/tokenize"            │ "postcss/lib/warn-once"           │ "postcss/lib/warning"             │ "postcss/package.json"            │
├────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┤
│ node10             │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🚫 No types                       │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🚫 No types                       │ 🟢                                �

```

Exit code: 1

Commit message:

Fix implementation resolution cache issue

packages/cli/test/snapshots/postcss@8.4.21.tgz.md, after:

# postcss@8.4.21.tgz

```
$ attw postcss@8.4.21.tgz


🎭 Import resolved to a CommonJS type declaration file, but an ESM JavaScript file.

🐛 Import resolved to types through a conditional package.json export, but only after failing to resolve through an earlier condition. This behavior is a TypeScript bug (https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/50762). It may misrepresent the runtime behavior of this import and should not be relied upon.

❌ Import resolved to JavaScript files, but no type declarations were found.


┌────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┐
│                    │ "postcss"                         │ "postcss/lib/at-rule"             │ "postcss/lib/comment"             │ "postcss/lib/container"           │ "postcss/lib/css-syntax-error"    │ "postcss/lib/declaration"         │ "postcss/lib/fromJSON"            │ "postcss/lib/input"               │ "postcss/lib/lazy-result"         │ "postcss/lib/no-work-result"      │ "postcss/lib/list"                │ "postcss/lib/map-generator"       │ "postcss/lib/node"                │ "postcss/lib/parse"               │ "postcss/lib/parser"              │ "postcss/lib/postcss"             │ "postcss/lib/previous-map"        │ "postcss/lib/processor"           │ "postcss/lib/result"              │ "postcss/lib/root"                │ "postcss/lib/rule"                │ "postcss/lib/stringifier"         │ "postcss/lib/stringify"           │ "postcss/lib/symbols"             │ "postcss/lib/terminal-highlight"  │ "postcss/lib/tokenize"            │ "postcss/lib/warn-once"           │ "postcss/lib/warning"             │ "postcss/package.json"            │
├────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┤
│ node10             │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ ❌ No types                       │ 🟢                                │ 🟢                                │ ❌ No types                       │ 🟢                                │ 

```

Exit code: 1
